# Birdfolk

traits taken from [https://www.dndbeyond.com/species/4-aarakocra](https://www.dndbeyond.com/species/4-aarakocra)

# Personality

The skies of Faunria are home to ﬂocks of birdfolk who are as diverse in coloration as they are in personality. Birdfolk help connect the animalfolk to one another, carrying mail, delivering aid, and even transporting other animals across Faunria. At their best, birdfolk are chivalrous, stalwart, and selﬂess. At their worst, birdfolk are self-important, stubborn, and patronizing.

---

# Birdfolk Traits

### **Ability Score Increase**

Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1.

### **Age**

Birdfolk reach maturity by age 3. Compared to humans, birdfolk don’t usually live longer than 30 years.

### **Alignment**

Most birdfolk are good and rarely choose sides when it comes to law and chaos. Tribal leaders and warriors might be lawful, while explorers and adventurers might tend toward chaotic.

### **Size**

Birdfolk are about 5 feet tall. They have thin, lightweight bodies that weigh between 80 and 100 pounds. Your size is Medium.

### **Speed**

Your base walking speed is 25 feet.

### **Flight**

You have a flying speed of 50 feet. To use this speed, you can’t be wearing medium or heavy armor.

### **Talons**

Your talons are natural weapons, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, you deal slashing damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike.

### **Languages**

You can speak, read, and write Common and Birdfolk.

---

# Tips & Recommendations

## Name Examples

Aera, Aial, Aur, Deekek, Errk, Heehk, Ikki, Kleeck, Oorr, Ouss, Quaf, Quierk, Salleek, Urreek, or Zeed. 

## Class Recommendations

Bard, Cleric, Fighters