[Home](../../Faunria%20305e090bea488029b2d2ea8b08b997ac.html)

[Species](../Species%20305e090bea4880f59fccd13a09062fe9.html)
# Lizardfolk

traits taken from [https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/lineage:lizardfolk](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/lineage:lizardfolk)

# Personality

Lizardfolk are the only animalfolk that are not native to Faunria. Many seasons ago, lizardfolk populated Faunria’s few shaley hills and rocky ravines, which best resemble the habitats of their homelands. They are industrious and cantankerous ﬁre-worshippers who live life at their own pace and contribute to Faunria as they please. To other animalfolk, they can come across as uncooperative and grumpy, but their enthusiasm and zeal for adventure is the foundation of any great adventuring party. At their best, lizardfolk are passionate, resilient, and direct. At their worst, lizardfolk are moody, aggressive, and cruel.

They need to bask in sunlight if they aren’t getting regular sunlight. In their culture, basking is referred to as “taking a shine” and sun spots to bask in are called “shinies” in their vernacular.

---

# Lizardfolk Traits

### **Ability Score Increase**

Your Constitution score increase by 2, and your Wisdom score increases by 1.

### **Age**

Lizardfolk reach maturity around age 14 and rarely live longer than 60 years.

### **Alignment**

Most lizardfolk are neutral. 

### **Size**

Your size is Medium.

### **Speed**

Your base walking speed is 30 feet, and you have a swimming speed of 30 feet.

### **Bite**

Your fanged maw is a natural weapon, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with it, you deal piercing damage equal to 1d6 + your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike.

### **Cunning Artisan**

As part of a short rest, you can harvest bone and hide from a slain beast, construct, dragon, monstrosity, or plant creature of size Small or larger to create one of the following items: a shield, a club, a javelin, or 1d4 darts or blowgun needles. To use this trait, you need a blade, such as a dagger, or appropriate artisan's tools, such as leatherworker's tools.

### **Hold Breath**

You can hold your breath for up to 15 minutes at a time.

### **Hunter's Lore**

You gain proficiency with two of the following skills of your choice: Animal Handling, Nature, Perception, Stealth, and Survival.

### **Natural Armor**

You have tough, scaly skin. When you aren't wearing armor, your AC is 13 + your Dexterity modifier. You can use your natural armor to determine your AC if the armor you wear would leave you with a lower AC. A shield's benefits apply as normal while you use your natural armor.

### **Hungry Jaws**

In battle, you can throw yourself into a vicious feeding frenzy. As a bonus action, you can make a special attack with your bite. If the attack hits, it deals its normal damage, and you gain temporary hit points (minimum of 1) equal to your Constitution modifier, and you can't use this trait again until you finish a short or long rest.

### **Languages**

You can speak, read, and write Common and Lizardfolk

---

# Tips & Recommendations

## Name Examples

None listed on the webpage, get creative!

## Class Recommendations

Rogue, Warlock, Ranger
