# Rabbitfolk

traits taken from [https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/lineage:rabbitfolk-ua](https://dnd5e.wikidot.com/lineage:rabbitfolk-ua)

# Personality

Rabbitfolk are talented chefs and industrious farmers who provide the bulk of Faunria’s food. Though they have a reputation for being boring homebodies, every species in Faunria respects the hardworking rabbitfolk who keep their tables full. At their best, rabbitfolk are stalwart, hospitable, and peaceful. At their worst, they are stubborn, narrowminded, and cowardly.

---

# Rabbitfolk Traits

### **Ability Score Increase**

Increase one ability score by 2, and increase a different one by 1.

### Alignment

Most rabbits tend to be lawful.

### **Type**

You are a Rabbit.

### **Size**

You are Medium or Small. You choose the size when you gain this race.

### **Speed**

Your walking speed is 30 feet.

### **Hare-Trigger**

You add your proficiency bonus to your initiative rolls.

### **Leporine Senses**

You have proficiency in the Perception skill.

### **Lucky Footwork**

When you fail a Dexterity saving throw, you can use your reaction to roll a d4 and add it to the result, potentially turning the failure into a success.

### **Rabbit Hop**

Once during each of your turns when you walk at least 5 feet, you can hop, rolling a d12 and moving that many feet in a direction of your choice. This extra distance doesn’t cost movement, but you can hop only if your speed isn’t 0.

### **Languages**

You can speak, read, and write Rabbitfolk.

---

# Tips & Recommendations

## Name Examples

Recommend us some!

## Class Recommendations

Fighter, Druid, Cleric