[Home](faunria/Faunria%20305e090bea488029b2d2ea8b08b997ac.html)

[Species](Faunria/Species%20305e090bea4880f59fccd13a09062fe9.html)
# Ratfolk

traits taken from [https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-N2ZIGJmLqd36c1Hd9Y9](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-N2ZIGJmLqd36c1Hd9Y9)

# Personality

Ratfolk are the secret-keepers of Faunria, collectors of relics and knowledge from as early as the foundation of Valley itself. Generations ago, they were more forthright with their knowledge, until a mischievous interloper nearly caused an apocalypse with an unsuccessful attempt to control the Calamity Beasts that caused untold destruction on their home. Because of this misuse of their knowledge, ratfolk society turned isolationist, secretive, and suspicious. At their best, ratfolk are thoughtful, self-sufficient, and intelligent. At their worst, ratfolk are distrusting, dismissive, and uncooperative.

---

# Ratfolk Traits

### **Ability Score Increase**

Your Dexterity score increases by 2, and one other ability score of your choice increases by 1.

### **Age**

Ratfolk live mature quickly and usually live brutally short lives. They reach adulthood at 8 and have a natural lifespan of 40 years, though most don't even live half that long.

### **Alignment**

The cutthroat nature of ratfolk society results in them leaning heavily towards chaos over order. Their emphasis on survival at all costs pulls ratfolk towards neutrality, if not outright evil, though exceptional individuals may push back against this.

### **Size**

Ratfolk are usually shorter and scrawnier than the average human. Adult ratfolk usually reach 4 to 5 feet in height and weigh 70 to 110 pounds, with exceptionally well-fed individuals reaching 6 feet and weighing as much as 160 pounds. Most ratfolk walk with a hunch, making them appear shorter. Your size is Medium.

### **Speed**

Your base walking speed is 30 feet

### **Darkvision**

You can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light. You can't discern color in darkness, only shades of gray.

### **Crevice Crawler**

You can move through and stop in a space large enough to fit a creature one size smaller than you without squeezing.

### **Bite**

Your razor-sharp jaws are a natural weapon you can use to make unarmed strikes. If you hit with them, you deal piercing damage equal to 1d4 + your Strength or Dexterity modifier (your choice) instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. You can also use Dexterity instead of Strength for the attack rolls you make with your bite.

### **Overwhelming Swarm**

When you damage a target with an attack or a spell, you can cause the attack or spell to deal extra 1d4 damage for each of your allies within 5 feet of the target that isn't incapacitated. You can benefit from up to 3 allies this way. Once you use this trait, you can't use it again until you finish a short or long rest.

At 5th level, the damage dice change to d6s. At 10th level, they become d8s. At 15th level, they become d10s. And at 20th level, they become d12s.

### **Scurry Away**

When a creature you can see ends its turn, you can move up to half your speed away from it as a reaction, and you are frightened of it until the end of your next turn. This movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks. While frightened, you can only take the Dash, Disengage, Dodge, or Hide action. This trait ignores immunity to the frightened condition.

### **Verminous Instincts**

You gain proficiency in Perception.

### **Languages**

You can speak, read, and write Common and Squeak Squeak.

---

# Tips & Recommendations

## Example Names

In some settings, ratfolk take names similar to those of nearby humanoids. Other times, ratfolk develop naming conventions of their own. First names are usually short, squeaky, and chittering. Surnames emphasize imposing traits or deeds, and ratfolk often take on new surnames they find useful for maintaining their status. Some ratfolk will even discard their first name altogether and only be referred to by an imposing title. Ratfolk names generally don't distinguish between the genders.

**Examples:** Skeetch Plaguebreath, Threk Bonechewer, Rikket Demoneyes, Gutterking, Kreet Craventail, Rotfang

## Class Recommendations

Rogue, Wizard, Warlock
